## Chapter 4. Setting up the system

### Step 1: Setup and configure hardware

Setup and configure storage hardware by using the blueprint specifications and hardware documentation.

**About this task**

**Procedure**

1. Connect your hardware according to manufacturer instructions. For optimal system performance, use at least 8 Gb SAN fabric for connections. If you are using a SAN switch, ensure that it is capable of 8, 16, or 32 Gb connection speeds.
   * For server SAN cabling, use both Fibre Channel connection ports in the dual-port adapters for optimal throughput. All configurations should support a Fibre Channel connection directly to storage or to a SAN switch.
   * For storage subsystem SAN cabling, connect at least two cables to each storage host controller. 
1. Check for system BIOS updates from the server vendor and apply any suggested changes.
1. Configure the disk system.  </br>To configure a IBM FlashSystem disk system, complete the following steps:
   * **Tips**:
     * For information about using the command line to complete Steps c - e, see Appendix B, ["Configuring the disk system by using commands"](appendix-b-configuring-the-disk-system-by-using-commands.md)
     * Medium systems were tested by using IBM FlashSystem - C200 software level 8.6.3.0.
   1. Configure licensed functions by following the instructions in your hardware documentation.
   1. Setup disks in enclosures according to the manufacturer instructions for the size of system that you are building.
   1. Create RAIDs and LUNs, or volumes. For information about storage configuration layout, see the storage blueprints:
      - ["Medium configuration"](3.1-medium-configuration.md)
   1. Define the IBM Storage Protect server as a host to the disk system.
   1. Assign or map all of the volumes that were created in Step 2c to the new host. </br>
      You need the Fibre Channel port address for the host definition to assign volumes. Issue the following command:
      ```
      lscfg -vps -l fcs0 | grep "Network Address"
      ```
      
   If your host is unable to see any devices form the storage system it may be necessary to disable virtualization on one more of the host ports on the IBM FlashSystem C200.
1. If you attach IBM FlashSystem and IBM Storage Protect servers to a SAN fabric, create zones to ensure that specific Fibre Channel ports on the IBM Storage Protect server can communicate with specific IBM FlashSystem C200 host ports. During testing, the following guidelines were followed:
   1. A separate zone was created for each Fibre Channel port on the IBM Storage Protect server so that each zone contained no more than one server port.
   1. Each zone contained one IBM FlashSystem C200 host port from each node canister. 
    
   Before you create zones, review the following examples for medium systems. The examples are appropriate for a single fabric environment in which the host and disk subsystems are attached to a single switch.
    
   * **Medium system**
     1. On the IBM Storage Protect server, both Fibre Channel ports on the dual port Fibre Channel adapter are cabled and are referred to as `ha1p1` and `ha1p2`.
     1. Two of the host ports on the IBM FlashSystem C200 server are cabled (one from each node canister) and are referred to as n1p1 and n2p1.
     1. Two zones are created with the following members:
        ```
         zone1: ha1p1, n1p1, n2p1
         zone2: ha1p2, n1p1, n2p1
        ```

   For additional guidelines about achieving optimal performance and redundancy, see the [SAN configuration and zoning rules summary](http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/STHGUJ_8.1.3/com.ibm.storwize.tb5.813.doc/svc_configrulessummary_02171530.html) in IBM Documentation.

---

### [Step 2: Install the operating system](4.2-step-2-install-the-operating-system.md)
### [Step 3: IBM FlashSystem C200 Storage: Configure multipath I/O](4.3-step-3-ibm-flashsystem-storage-configure-multipath-io.md)
### [Step 4: IBM FlashSystem C200 Storage: Configure file systems for IBM Storage Protect](4.4-step-4-ibm-flashsystem-storage-configure-file-systems-for-ibm-storage-protect.md)
### [Step 5: Test system performance](4.5-step-5-test-system-performance.md)
### [Step 6: Install the IBM Storage Protect backup-archive client](4.6-step-6-install-the-ibm-storage-protect-backup-archive-client.md)
### [Step 7: Install the IBM Storage Protect server](4.7-step-7-install-the-ibm-storage-protect-server.md)

