### Step 8: Install the IBM Storage Protect server

#### Install the IBM Storage Protect server

Install IBM Storage Protect  V8.1.27 or later, by using the command line in console mode. To take advantage of product updates and fixes for possible issues, install the latest level. </br>At the time of publication, the latest level of IBM Storage Protect was 8.1.27.000.

**Before you begin**

Verify that the operating system is set to the language that you require. By default, the language of the operating system is the language of the installation wizard. 

**Procedure**

To install IBM Storage Protect, complete the following steps:
1. Change to the directory where you downloaded the package.
1. Start the installation wizard in console mode by issuing the following command:
   ```
    ./install.sh -c
   ```
   **Optional**: Generate a response file as part of a console mode installation. Complete the console mode installation options, and in the **Summary** window, specify G to generate the responses.

**Results**

If errors occur during the installation process, the errors are recorded in log files that are stored in the IBM Installation Manager logs directory, for example:
```
/var/ibm/InstallationManager/logs
```

**What to do next**

Before you customize IBM Storage Protect for your use, go to the [IBM Support Portal for IBM Storage Protect](https://www.ibm.com/mysupport/s/topic/0TO50000000IQWvGAO/storage-protect). Click **Downloads (fixes and PTFs)** and apply any applicable fixes.

**Tip**: For more information about installation, see [Installing the server components](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/storage-protect/8.1.27?topic=server-installing-components) in IBM Knowledge Center.
