## Chapter 6. Completing the system configuration

### 6.2 Registering nodes and associating them with predefined client schedules

When you are ready to register nodes to the IBM Storage Protect server, use the **REGISTER NODE** command. Then, you can associate nodes with a predefined client schedule.

**Before you begin**

When you register nodes, the host name of the protected system is typically used for the node name. In the following example, assume that you want to register a node named newnode1 to the **TSMSERVER1_FILE** domain for backup-archive client backups, and associate the node with a predefined client schedule. You can use the administrative command line to issue server commands for the operation.

When you issue the **REGISTER NODE** server command, increase the default value for the maximum number of mount points that a node is allowed to use on the server. Specify a value of 99 for the **MAXNUMMP** parameter instead of using the default.

Complete the following example steps to register newnode1 , associate it with a schedule, and then verify that the schedule is ready to use for backups.

**Procedure**

1. Register _newnode1_ to the TSMSERVER1_FILE domain. Specify a value for the client node password, for example, pw4node1. Set the MAXNUMMP parameter to 99:
   ```
   register node newnode1 pw4node1 dom=TSMSERVER1_FILE maxnummp=99
   ```
1. To use a predefined client schedule, determine which schedule to associate newnode1 with by querying the list of available schedules. Issue the QUERY SCHEDULE command.  </br>The output lists all defined schedules. For example, the following output shows the details for the FILE_INCRFOREVER_10PM schedule:
   ```
    Domain          * Schedule Name         Action  Start Date/Time      Duration  Period  Day
    --------------- - ----------------      ------  ---------------      --------  ------  ---
    TSMSERVER1_FILE   FILE_INCRFOREVER_10PM Inc Bk  07/24/2013 22:00:00  60 M      1 D     Any
   ```
1. Define an association between newnode1 and the FILE _INCRFOREVER_10PM schedule. You must specify the domain for the node and schedule. </br> For example:
   ```
    define association TSMSERVER1_FILE FILE_INCRFOREVER_10PM newnode1
   ```
1. Verify that newnode1 is associated with the correct schedule by issuing the **QUERY ASSOCIATION** command. </br> For example, issue the following command, specifying the schedule domain and the schedule name:
   ```
    query association TSMSERVER1_FILE FILE_INCRFOREVER_10PM
   ```
   The output shows that newnode1 is associated with the queried domain and schedule name.
   ```
    Policy Domain Name: TSMSERVER1_FILE
         Schedule Name: FILE_INCRFOREVER_10PM
       Associated Nodes: NEWNODE1
   ```
1. Display details about the client schedule by issuing the **QUERY EVENT** command. Specify the domain and name of the schedule for which you want to display events. </br> For example, issue the following command:
   ```
    query event TSMSERVER1_FILE FILE_INCRFOREVER_10PM
   ```
   The output shows that the backup for newnode1 is scheduled, but has not yet occurred.
   ```
    Scheduled Start     Actual Start  Schedule Name          Node Name  Status
    ------------------- ------------- -------------          ---------  ------
    08/23/2013 22:00:00               FILE_INCRFOREVER_10PM  NEWNODE1   Future
   ```
1. After you register a node and assign it to a schedule, configure the client and client schedule on the client system and then start the scheduler daemon on the client system so that the backup operation starts at the scheduled time. </br> To configure the client schedules that are predefined by the Blueprint configuration script, see Appendix D, ["Using predefined client schedules"](appendix-d-using-predefined-client-schedules.md). </br>
   For more information about starting the client scheduler, see the [IBM Storage Protect client documentation](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/storage-protect/8.1.27?topic=clients) in IBM Knowledge Center.