## Chapter 6. Completing the system configuration

### 6.3 Reorganizing database tables and indexes

Schedule database table and index reorganization to ensure that the server is running efficiently.

**About this task**

If tables or the indexes that are associated with tables are not reorganized, unexpected database and log growth and reduced server performance can occur over time. For servers at V7.1.7 or later, the Blueprint configuration script enables online database table and index reorganization for most tables by setting the **ALLOWREORGTABLE** and **ALLOWREORGINDEX** server options to YES. Table reorganization is disabled for some larger tables by specifying the **DISABLEREORGTABLE** server option. For the tables in the following list, you can run offline reorganization by using the Procedure:
* BF_AGGREGATED_BITFILES
* BF_BITFILE_EXTENTS
* ARCHIVE_OBJECTS
* BACKUP_OBJECTS

**Restriction**: Run offline reorganization for the BF_BITFILE_EXTENTS table only if your system includes one or more primary storage pools that were converted to directory-container storage pools.

To run offline reorganization, you must have a file system with enough temporary space to hold an entire table during reorganization. Space within the file systems that are used for database backups can be freed for this purpose.

Because the IBM Storage Protect server database grows over time, there might be insufficient space in the database backup file systems to use as free space for the reorganization process. To release space in database backup file systems, you can remove old backup versions.

Complete the following steps to prepare temporary space in the database file systems, and then run offline reorganization.

**Procedure**

1. Remove the oldest database backups. </br>For example, to remove the two oldest database backups, issue the following command:
   ```
   delete volhistory type=dbb todate=today-4
   ```
1. Back up the current version of the database with the **BACKUP DB** command:
   ```
   backup db devc=DBBACK_FILEDEV type=full numstreams=3
   ```
1. Locate the database backup file system with the most free space to use for the reorganization.
1. Complete the procedure for offline table reorganization. During this step, you might be prompted to back up the database but it is unnecessary for you to do so. Follow the instructions in [technote 1683633](http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21683633).
