## Chapter 4. Setting up the system

### [Step 1: Setup and configure hardware](4.1-step-1-setup-and-configure-hardware.md)

---
### Step 2: Install the operating system

Complete the following steps to install AIX on the server system.

**Before you begin**

The operating system is installed on internal hard disk drives. Configure the drives by using a hardware RAID 1 schema. For example, if you are configuring a large system, configure the three 300 GB internal drives by assigning two drives to a RAID 1 pair and the third drive as a spare. If a spare is not needed to meet business requirements, you can configure the system with only two drives.

**Procedure**

1. Install AIX Version 7.2, TL4, SP6 or later, according to the manufacturer instructions.</br>
   Blueprint systems were tested with Version 7.3, TL1, SP2 (7300-01-02-2320)
1. Configure your TCP/IP settings according to the operating system installation instructions.
1. Open the /etc/hosts file and complete the following actions:
   * Update the file to include the IP address and host name for the server. For example:
     ```
      192.0.2.7 server.yourdomain.com server
     ``` 
   * Verify that the file contains an entry for localhost with an address of 127.0.0.1. For example:
     ```
      127.0.0.1 localhost
     ```
1. Enable AIX I/O completion ports by issuing the following command:
     ```
      chdev -l iocp0 -P
     ``` 
   Server performance can be affected by the Olson time zone definition.
1. To optimize performance, change your system time zone format from Olson to POSIX. Use the following command format to update the time zone setting:
   ```
   chtz=local_timezone,date/time,date/time
   ```
   For example, if you lived in Tucson, Arizona, where Mountain Standard Time is used, you would issue the following command to change to the POSIX format:
   ```
   chtz MST7MDT,M3.2.0/2:00:00,M11.1.0/2:00:00
   ```
1. In the .profile file of the instance user, verify that the following environment variable is set:
   ```
   export MALLOCOPTIONS=multiheap:16
   ```
   In later versions of the IBM Storage Protect server, this value is set automatically when the server is started. If the instance user is not available, complete this step later, when the instance user becomes available.
1. Set the system to create full application core files. Issue the following command:
   ```
   chdev -l sys0 -a fullcore=true -P
   ```
1. For communications with the server and optionally, secure communications with the Operations Center, make sure that ports 1500 and 11090 are open on any firewalls that might exist. </br> If you are not using the default port values, make sure that the ports you are using are open. You will also need to specify those ports when you run the configuration script.
1. Enable TCP high-performance enhancements. Issue the following command:
   ```
   no -p -o rfc1323=1
   ```
1. For optimal throughput and reliability, bond two 10 Gb Ethernet ports together for a medium system and four 10 Gb Ethernet ports for a large system. Use the System Management Interface Tool (SMIT) to bond the ports together by using Etherchannel. </br> The following settings were used during testing:
   ```
   mode              8023ad
   auto_recovery     yes            Enable automatic recovery after failover
   backup_adapter    NONE           Adapter used when whole channel fails
   hash_mode         src_dst_port   Determines how outgoing adapter is chosen
   interval          long           Determines interval value for IEEE
   802.3ad           mode
   mode              8023ad         EtherChannel mode of operation
   netaddr           0              Address to ping
   noloss_failover   yes            Enable lossless failover after ping failure
   num_retries       3              Times to retry ping before failing
   retry_time        1              Wait time (in seconds) between pings
   use_alt_addr      no             Enable Alternate EtherChannel Address
   use_jumbo_frame   no             Enable Gigabit Ethernet Jumbo Frames
   ```
1. If your system includes POWER8™, POWER9™ or POWER10™ processors, increase the number of threads per core by enabling simultaneous multithreading (SMT=8). Use the bosboot command to ensure that simultaneous threading persists even if you restart the system. Issue the following commands:
   ```
   smtctl -m on
   smtctl -t 8
   bosboot -a
   ```
---

### [Step 3: IBM FlashSystem Storage: Configure multipath I/O](4.3-step-3-ibm-flashsystem-storage-configure-multipath-io.md)
### [Step 4: IBM FlashSystem Storage: Configure file systems for IBM Storage Protect](4.4-step-4-ibm-flashsystem-storage-configure-file-systems-for-ibm-storage-protect.md)
### [Step 5: IBM Elastic Storage System: Configuring the system](4.5-step-5-ibm-elastic-storage-system-configuring-the-system.md)
### [Step 6: Test system performance](4.6-step-6-test-system-performance.md)
### [Step 7: Install the IBM Storage Protect backup-archive client](4.7-step-7-install-the-ibm-storage-protect-backup-archive-client.md)
### [Step 8: Install the IBM Storage Protect server](4.8-step-8-install-the-ibm-storage-protect-server.md)
