## Chapter 4. Setting up the system

### [Step 1: Setup and configure hardware](4.1-step-1-setup-and-configure-hardware.md)
### [Step 2: Install the operating system](4.2-step-2-install-the-operating-system.md)

---
### Step 3: IBM FlashSystem Storage: Configure multipath I/O

Complete the steps to enable and configure multipathing for disk storage. For detailed instructions, see the documentation that is provided with your hardware.

**Procedure**

1. Determine the Fibre Channel port address that you must use for the host definition on the disk subsystem. Issue the `lscfg` command for every port.
   * On small and medium systems, issue the following commands:
     ``` 
      lscfg -vps -l fcs0 | grep "Network Address"
      lscfg -vps -l fcs1 | grep "Network Address"
     ``` 
   * On large systems, issue the following commands:
     ```
      lscfg -vps -l fcs0 | grep "Network Address"
      lscfg -vps -l fcs1 | grep "Network Address"
      lscfg -vps -l fcs2 | grep "Network Address"
      lscfg -vps -l fcs3 | grep "Network Address"
     ```
1. Ensure that the following AIX file sets are installed:
   * devices.common.IBM.mpio.rte
   * devices.fcp.disk.rte
1. Issue the `cfgmgr` command to have AIX rescan the hardware and discover available disks. For example:
   ```
   cfgmgr
   ```
1. To list the available disks, issue the following command:
   ```
   lsdev -Ccdisk
   ```
   The output is similar to the following example:
   ```
   hdisk0 Available 00-00-00 SAS Disk Drive
   hdisk1 Available 00-00-00 SAS Disk Drive
   hdisk2 Available 01-00-00 SAS Disk Drive
   hdisk3 Available 01-00-00 SAS Disk Drive
   hdisk4 Available 06-01-02 MPIO IBM 2076 FC Disk
   hdisk5 Available 07-01-02 MPIO IBM 2076 FC Disk
   ...
   ```
1. Use the output from the `lsdev` command to identify and list device IDs for each disk device. </br>For example, a device ID could be hdisk4. Save the list of device IDs to use when you create file systems for the IBM Storage Protect server.
1. Correlate the SCSI device IDs to specific disk LUNs from the disk system by listing detailed information about all physical volumes in the system. Issue the following command:
   ```
   lspv -u
   ```
   The output for each device is similar to the following example:
   ```
   hdisk4 00f8cf083fd97327 None active 332136005076300810105780000000000003004214503IBMfcp
   ```
   In the example, _60050763008101057800000000000030_ is the UID for the volume, as reported by the IBM FlashSystem management interface. </br>
   To verify disk size in MB and compare with what is listed for the system, issue the following command:
   ```
   bootinfo -s hdisk4
   ```
---

### [Step 4: IBM FlashSystem Storage: Configure file systems for IBM Storage Protect](4.4-step-4-ibm-flashsystem-storage-configure-file-systems-for-ibm-storage-protect.md)
### [Step 5: IBM Elastic Storage System: Configuring the system](4.5-step-5-ibm-elastic-storage-system-configuring-the-system.md)
### [Step 6: Test system performance](4.6-step-6-test-system-performance.md)
### [Step 7: Install the IBM Storage Protect backup-archive client](4.7-step-7-install-the-ibm-storage-protect-backup-archive-client.md)
### [Step 8: Install the IBM Storage Protect server](4.8-step-8-install-the-ibm-storage-protect-server.md)
