## Chapter 4. Setting up the system

### [Step 1: Setup and configure hardware](4.1-step-1-setup-and-configure-hardware.md)
### [Step 2: Install the operating system](4.2-step-2-install-the-operating-system.md)
### [Step 3: IBM FlashSystem Storage: Configure multipath I/O](4.3-step-3-ibm-flashsystem-storage-configure-multipath-io.md)
### [Step 4: IBM FlashSystem Storage: Configure file systems for IBM Storage Protect](4.4-step-4-ibm-flashsystem-storage-configure-file-systems-for-ibm-storage-protect.md)

---

### Step 5: IBM Elastic Storage System: Configuring the system

To configure IBM Elastic Storage System for a large system, review the following information and work with your IBM representative or IBM Business Partner to complete the setup.

**Before you begin**

This procedure requires IBM Storage Scale software:
* Ensure that you can access the installation package for IBM Storage Scale Version 4.2.3 or later at the [IBM Passport Advantage®](http://www.ibm.com/software/passportadvantage/) website.
* Ensure that you can access IBM Storage Scale V4.2.3 or later at [Fix Central](http://www.ibm.com/support/fixcentral)

**About this task**

**Tip**: For better integration of your storage environment, install the same level of IBM Storage Scale on both the IBM Storage Protect server and the IBM Elastic Storage System.

**Procedure**

1. On the IBM Storage Protect system, configure TCP/IP settings according to the manufacturer instructions. </br> Use different network adapters for communication between server and clients, and the server and the IBM Elastic Storage System.
1. On the IBM Storage Protect system, install IBM Storage Scale:
   1. Download the IBM Storage Scale base software package at [Passport Advantage](http://www.ibm.com/software/passportadvantage/).
   1. Download the latest IBM Storage Scale fix pack at [Fix Central](http://www.ibm.com/support/fixcentral).
   1. Install the IBM Storage Scale base software. </br>
      Follow the instructions in [Installing IBM Storage Scale on AIX nodes](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/storage-scale/5.2.0?topic=installing-storage-scale-aix-nodes).
   1. Install the IBM Storage Scale fix pack.
1. Configure a Secure Shell (SSH) automatic login procedure without a password between the IBM Storage Protect server and the IBM Elastic Storage System management node and storage nodes. </br>Take one of the following actions:
   * If the /root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub file is not available on the IBM Storage Protect server, generate an id_rsa.pub file. The file contains a public key. Issue the following commands from an IBM Elastic Storage System storage node that is part of the cluster:
     ```
     ssh-keygen –t rsa
     cd /root/.ssh
     chmod 640 /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
     ```
   * If the /root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub file is available on the IBM Storage Protect server, complete the following steps:
     1. Append the contents of the id_rsa.pub file to the end of the authorized_keys file on each of the systems in the IBM Storage Scale cluster.
     1. Append the contents of the id_rsa.pub file from each of the other systems in the cluster to the authorized_keys file on the IBM Storage Protect server.
1. Verify that the login procedure is configured. Log in to the other computers in the cluster from the IBM Storage Protect server by running the `ssh` command without using a password.
1. If the operating system on the IBM Storage Protect server is running a firewall, open several ports for incoming network connections from other systems in the IBM Storage Scale cluster. For instructions, see [Securing the IBM Storage Scale system by using a firewall](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/storage-scale/5.2.0?topic=topics-securing-storage-scale-system-using-firewall).
1. Update the /etc/hosts file on the IBM Storage Scale nodes with information about the IBM Storage Protect server.
1. Add the IBM Storage Protect system as an IBM Storage Scale node in the cluster by running the `mmaddnode` command. Issue the command from an IBM Elastic Storage System node that is part of the cluster. </br>
   For example, if the IBM Storage Protect IP address is 192.0.2.7 , you would issue the following command:
   ```
   mmaddnode -N 192.0.2.7
   ```
1. Assign an IBM Storage Scale license to the IBM Storage Protect server. From an IBM Elastic Storage System node that is part of the cluster, issue the following command:
   ```
   mmchlicense server -N _server_ip_address_
   ```
   where server_ip_address specifies the IP address of the IBM Storage Protect server. </br>
1. To optimize the IBM Storage Protect server workload, tune IBM Storage Scale client-side parameters by using the `mmchconfig` command. </br>
   Issue the following command from an IBM Elastic Storage System node that is part of the cluster:
   ```
   mmchconfig disableDIO=yes,aioSyncDelay=10,pagepool=24G,prefetchAggressivenessRead=0 -N
   server_ip_address
   ```
   where server_ip_address specifies the IP address of the IBM Storage Protect server. </br>
   If IBM Storage Scale replication will be used, the following settings are also required on the IBM Storage Protect server to avoid inaccurate capacity reporting.
   ```
   mmchconfig ignoreReplicaSpaceOnStat=yes -i
   mmchconfig ignoreReplicationForQuota=yes -i
   mmchconfig ignoreReplicationOnStatfs=yes -i
   ```
1. Create the IBM Storage Scale file system on the IBM Elastic Storage System system:
   1. Verify that the expected factory configuration of a left and right recovery group is in place by using the `mmlsrecoverygroup` command:
      1. Review the command output to verify that two recovery groups exist, and each group has three predefined declustered arrays.
      1. Record the recovery group names, which are required in step "11.b".
   1. Create a stanza file that defines parameters for each virtual disk:
      1. Specify VDisks in the DA1 declustered array from both recovery groups.
      1. Use an 8+2p RAID code for the storage pool data and the 3WayReplication RAID code for the IBM Storage Scale file system metadata.
      For example, create a file that is named /tmp/ess_vdisk that contains the following information:
      ```
      # cat /tmp/ess_vdisk
      %vdisk: vdiskName=GL2_A_L_meta_256k_1 rg=GL2_A_L da=DA1 blocksize=256k size=500g raidCode=3WayReplication diskUsage=metadataOnly pool=system
      %vdisk: vdiskName=GL2_A_R_meta_256k_1 rg=GL2_A_R da=DA1 blocksize=256k size=500g raidCode=3WayReplication diskUsage=metadataOnly pool=system
      %vdisk: vdiskName=GL2_A_L_data_8m_1 rg=GL2_A_L da=DA1 blocksize=8m raidCode=8+2p diskUsage=dataOnly pool=data
      %vdisk: vdiskName=GL2_A_R_data_8m_1 rg=GL2_A_R da=DA1 blocksize=8m raidCode=8+2p diskUsage=dataOnly pool=data
      ```
      Because a size is not specified for the two storage pool VDisks, they use all of the remaining space on the declustered arrays. </br>
      **Tip**: For larger file systems, you might have to specify more than two VDisks to meet business requirements. Create VDisks in multiples of 50 TB. Specify the size of the VDisk by using the SIZE parameter. For example, to create a 400® TB file system, create eight 50 TB VDisks. Stanza entries are similar to the following example:
      ```
      %vdisk: vdiskName=GL2_A_L_data_8m_1 rg=GL2_A_L da=DA1 blocksize=8m size=50t raidCode=8+2p diskUsage=dataOnly pool=data
      ```
   1. Create disks by running the `mmcrvdisk` and `mmcrnsd` commands and by using the stanza file that you created in step "11.b". The `mmcrvdisk` command creates virtual disks, and the `mmcrnsd` command creates IBM Storage Scale disks by using the virtual disks. <br> For example, if the VDisk stanza is called `/tmp/ess_vdisk`, you would issue the following commands:
      ```
      mmcrvdisk -F /tmp/ess_vdisk
      mmcrnsd -F /tmp/ess_vdisk
      ```
   1. Create a single IBM Storage Scale file system by using the `mmcrfs` command and specifying the stanza file. Use the 8 MB block size for data and 256 KB for metadata. </br>For example:
      ```
      mmcrfs esstsm1 -F /tmp/ess_vdisk -D nfs4 -B 8m --metadata-block-size 256k
            -A yes -L 128M -k nfs4 -m 1 -M 2 -Q no -r 1 -R 2 -S relatime
            -T /esstsm1 -z no
      ```
   1. Mount the IBM Storage Scale file system on the IBM Storage Protect system. On the IBM Storage Protect system, issue `mmmount` command. </br> For example:
      ```
      mmmount /esstsm1
      ```
   1. Verify the amount of free space in the IBM Storage Scale file system. The command and output are similar to the following example:
      ```
      [root@tapsrv03 ~]# df -h /esstsm1
      Filesystem     Size     Used     Avail    Use%     Mounted on
      /dev/esstsm1   401T     1.7G     401T     1%       /esstsm1
      ```
   1. Set IBM Storage Scale to automatically start when the system starts by using the `chkconfig` command. </br>For example:
      ```
      chkconfig gpfs on
      ```
   1. Verify that the VDisks and file system were created correctly by using the `mmlsvdisk` and `mmlsfs` commands. </br>For example:
      ```
      mmlsvdisk
      mmlsfs /dev/esstsm1
      ```
1. Configure the Flash storage to be used for the IBM Storage Protect database. Follow the instructions in [Common controller and disk array management tasks](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/power9/0009-ESS?topic=tasks-using-disk-array-manager).

For more information about completing the steps in the procedure, see the online product documentation:
* [Instructions for configuring IBM Elastic Storage System](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/power9?topic=elastic-storage-server)
* [Instructions for installing IBM Storage Scale](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/storage-scale/5.2.0?topic=installing)
* [IBM Storage Scale command reference information](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/storage-scale/5.2.0?topic=command-reference)

---

### [Step 6: Test system performance](4.6-step-6-test-system-performance.md)
### [Step 7: Install the IBM Storage Protect backup-archive client](4.7-step-7-install-the-ibm-storage-protect-backup-archive-client.md)
### [Step 8: Install the IBM Storage Protect server](4.8-step-8-install-the-ibm-storage-protect-server.md)
